Extract Projects and Templates
How can I find my project in Extract Builder?
“My Stuff” in Builder contains all the projects, templates, and workspaces you have design rights to in Extract. If your project isn’t listed, you can use the “+ Add” button on the top right of the screen to either add it from REDCap or create a new project, template, or workspace.
Can I explore Extract Builder without creating a project?
Yes, if you aren’t collecting and storing data use “+ Add” to either create a new template or workspace. Workspaces will be deleted after 7 days if not converted to a project or template. You can also use the read only Standard Library tool to see what data elements are included without building a project or template.
What is the difference between projects and templates?
Project are linked to REDCap databases and designed to collect and store data. Templates are collections of fields not linked to REDCap that can be used to easily create new projects.
What is the difference between shared fields and total fields?
Total fields are the total number of fields in a project including both public and private and well as vetted and unvetted. Shared fields are the public and vetted subset that are available to the Extract community.
Project – Project Details
Why is Record ID present in my project and why can’t I delete/reorder it?
Record ID is the only mandatory field in each project and needs to be first in order to correctly sync with REDCap. It isn’t present in templates and workspaces.
If my REDCap project is in production mode, can I edit it in Extract?
Once a REDCap is in production mode, all database changes must be made in REDCap. In Extract, users can sync the project by selecting Pull from REDCap. A user can also change the Access settings for the project’s fields.
Project Details – Shop
How do I create a new field?
First, use the “Shop” button to first search the Standard Library for the field. If an appropriate option isn’t available, then use the “+ Create Field” button to add it to your project.
What is the difference between Standard Library and Shared Fields?
The Standard Library is a list of vetted/standardized fields provided by the Extract team. Shared Fields come from existing projects or templates created by other Extract users. Fields within the Standard Library or Shared Fields are customizable.
What information in New Field is required for my newly created field?
The Extract team recommends users enter as much information as possible, but only the red asterisked fields are required.
Why is “eb_” present in the Field Name?
“eb_” indicates that the field was created in Extract Builder. The Extract team recommends that users keep the suggested field names.
How do I add calculated fields and/or branching logic in Extract?
Branching logic can be set up in the New Field page when creating a new or editing an existing field in Extract. Calculated fields can be added by selecting “Calculated Field” as the Field Type in the New Field page.
Project Details – Organize
What is the difference between screens in Extract and instruments/forms in REDCap? 
These terms are used interchangeably between applications. The screens in Extract will become instruments/forms in REDCap.
What is the difference between tile and list view?
These different display mechanisms allow the user to view fields in different styles. The tile view was designed for displaying the instruments while the list view is focused on displaying all the fields.
Project Details – Access
Can I change the privacy settings for my fields at any time, even if I’ve saved them as public or private in the past?
Yes.
Who will be able to see the fields if they’re released for review?
If a field has a red lock, only people on the project listed under Managed by can see that the field is in your project. If a field has a green lock and is vetted (green shield), other Extract users can see that it is in your project as a shared field under Shared Projects or Shared Templates. If the field has a green lock and is unvetted (grey or blue shield), only the Extract team can see that the field is in your project for the purpose of standardization. This refers only to the fields not any actual data or patient records.
Project Details – Export
What’s the purpose of the Export option?
The Export button generates an Excel sheet that lists the fields in your project. This can be shared with others without having to add them to the project in Extract or REDCap.
Does Extract create a data dictionary I can import into REDCap?
Extract does not create a data dictionary that can be downloaded and imported into REDCap. However, when a user syncs their Extract project by pushing to REDCap, it will build the REDCap and accompanying data dictionary that can be downloaded from REDCap.
Project Details – Sync
What happens when I pull from or push to REDCap?
Pulling from REDcap overwrites the existing Extract and replaces it with information from REDCap. Pushing to REDCap overwrites the existing REDCap and replaces it with information from Extract. The Extract and REDCap projects should be kept aligned by syncing after changes are made to either platform. The project details page indicates the last time, date, and direction of syncing.
Why is the number of fields in Extract different from the number of fields in REDCap?
REDCap instruments automatically create REDCap-specific form status fields (Incomplete, Unverified, Completed) that aren’t displayed in Extract. This results in one Extract field per instrument in REDCap. For example, if the project has 10 forms, there will be 10 more fields in REDCap than there are fields in Extract.
Can a sync be undone?
No. If a sync has been performed in error, please contact the Extract team for assistance as soon as possible.